--Hello? This is Jackie speaking.
Hi my name is Tony and
this is Every Frame a Painting.
大家好。我叫Tony，这是Every Frame a Painting.
Some filmmakers can do action.
Others can do comedy
有的制片人会拍动作片。
有的会拍喜剧。
But for 40 years, the master of
combining them has been Jackie Chan.
在这40年，能把这些揉合在一起的大师就只有成龙。
These days, there's a lot of movies
that combine funny scenes
现在有好多电影既有滑稽的场景
with fight scenes.
But even when the movie’s good
和打斗场景。
可是即使电影好看
the comedy and action seem to be
two directors and two different styles.
喜剧和动作像是两个不同的导演和两个不一样的风格。
And that’s why Jackie’s so interesting.
所以成龙才显的那么有趣。
In his style, action IS comedy.
他的风格，动作片同时就是喜剧片。
And his work shows that the same
filmmaking principles apply
whether you’re trying to be funny
or kick ass.
在他的电影中都是同一种原则运用在滑稽或者踢屁股。
So let’s dive in. If you’d like to
see the names of the films
as I’m talking,
press the CC button below.
Ready? Let’s go.
准备好了吗？开始。
So how does Jackie create
action that is also funny?
那成龙是怎么做到的呢？
First off, he gives himself
a disadvantage.
首先，他让自己处于被动。
No matter what film, Jackie always
starts beneath his opponents.
他的每部片，成龙处于对手的下风。
He has no shoes. He’s handcuffed.
他没鞋子。他手被铐。
He has a bomb in his mouth.
他嘴含炸弹。
From this point, he has to
fight his way back to the top.
从这起，他要打到最后。
Each action creates
a logical reaction.
每个动作都要有个合乎逻辑的反应。
And by following the logic...
然后跟着这个主线。。。
we get a joke.
来个笑话。
In movies, this comedic style
goes back to the silent clowns
这个风格追溯到默剧里的小丑。
like Chaplin, Lloyd, and Kea
ton.
卓别林，勞埃德， 基頓
But I think Jackie has distilled it
down to one line of dialogue:
可是我觉得成龙把它浓缩成一句台词。
--Please! I said I don't want trouble!
我真不想找麻烦！
Because he’s the underdog,
Jackie has to get creative
因为他处于下风，他必须急中生智。
which brings us to point number two:
he uses anything around him.
这就来到第二阶段：
他必须利用所有可以利用到的道具。
This is the most famous
aspect of his style.
这就是他风格中最有名的那部分。
take something familiar,
do something unfamiliar.
用一些常见的东西，
做成不寻常的效果。
I’ve seen him fight with chairs
常见的用椅子打斗
dresses
裙子
chopsticks
筷子
keyboards
键盘
Legos
乐高
refrigerators
冰箱
and of course:
当然（梯子。。。）
Not only does this make
each fight organic and grounded
这些生活中常见的道具不仅让打斗变得有生命力更接地气
it also gives us jokes that
couldn’t happen anywhere else.
而且让观众忍俊不禁，这样场景生活中是看不到的。
Number 3: Jackie likes clarity.
He doesn’t do dark scenes where
everything is color corrected blue.
If his opponent wears black,
he wears white.
如果他的对手穿黑色,他穿白
And if his opponent’s in white,
then he’s stylin'
如果他的对手穿白，他就花里胡哨
His framing's so clear that in each shot
he’s setting up the next bit of action.
Here, even though we’re
watching the stuntman,
虽然我们在看特技演员
two-thirds of frame is the staircase.
A few seconds later, we see why
这画面三分之二是后面的楼梯。
在不久我们发现为什么。
He keeps things clear by rarely
using handheld or dolly moves.
他极少运用人工或手推车，就为了让画面清晰。
--Like American movies, there’s a lotta
movement. When the camera angle moves
在美国电影，所有东西都在动。如果摄影机在动
--that means the actors,
they don’t know how to fight.
你就知道演员不真的会斗争。
In slow-motion you can see how the
camera operator swings around
慢慢看，
to make the hits seem more violent.
But since Jackie CAN fight...
--I never move my camera.
Always steady. Wide-angle.
我不
--Let him see I jumping down,
I do the flip, I do the fall
让他看我跳下来，翻跟斗，摔倒。
When you shoot this way, everything
looks more impressive because
action and reaction are
in the same frame.
Notice how you can always see Jackie,
the car and the wall at the same time.
But a similar stunt from Rush Hour 3
never includes all the elements in the
same shot, and it doesn’t work.
The same principle applies to comedy.
This shot, directed by Sammo Hung,
shows us
the punch, the bad guy’s face
and Jackie’s face all in one.
Now check out the same gag
in Shanghai Noon.
Here, action and reaction
are separate shots.
It kinda works, but not nearly as well.
Why don’t more directors do this?
Because of number 5:
they don’t have enough time.
Jackie is perfectionist willing to do as
many takes as necessary to get it right
And in Hong Kong,
he’s supported by the studio
which gives him
months to shoot a fight.
--And the most difficult thing is
when I throw the fan and it comes back.
More than 120 takes. Those kind of
scenes, you say "Oh, Jackie's good."
It's not good. You can do it. Except
do you have the patience or not?
一点不厉害。你可以做得到。就是看你有没有耐心。
When I rewatch his work,
these little things
在他电影这小
are the ones
I’m most impressed by.
He doesn’t need to do them,
and they eat into his budget.
他真的不需要拍，而且很花钱
But he still does them
because he wants to.
And it’s that “going above and beyond”
that I respect and admire.
--But in America,
they don’t allow you to do that.
可是在美国你不能这样子做
You know, because money.
因为钱
And his American work is
missing something else:
而且他的美国电影还差一部分
--And there’s a rhythm also,
to the way that the shots are performed
and also the way they’re edited, and
Jackie said something very interesting
that the audience don’t know the
rhythm’s there until it’s NOT there.
Jackie’s fight scenes have
a distinct musical rhythm,
a timing he works out
on set with the performers.
--Ready, action.
Stay where you are!
摄像，开拍. 别动
Stay where you are,
don't chase me.
不要动。不要追
See? Everybody looks good.
大家都好看。
Even experienced martial artists
have trouble with it.
In his earliest films, you see him
learning the timing from Yuan Heping
在他最早的电影他从袁和平学到了这种节奏
and it’s very much like Chinese opera.
有点像戏曲。
But by the mid-1980s,
working with his own stunt team
到80年代，他有自己的动作团队
He had something totally unique.
创造了一个很新很特别的风格。
In America, many directors and
editors don’t understand this timing.
And they ruin it by
cutting on every single hit.
By in Hong Kong, directors
hold their shots long enough
for the audience to feel the rhythm.
--The most important part
is the editing.
Most directors,
they don’t know how to edit.
Even the stunt coordinators,
Hong Kong directors like Jackie
and Sammo cut a particular way.
In the first shot, you hit
your opponent in the wide.
In the second shot,
you get a nice close-up.
But when you cut the shots together,
you DON'T match continuity.
At the end of shot 1, the elbow is here.
At the beginning of shot 2,
it's all the way back here.
These 3 frames are for the audience’s
eyes to register the new shot.
And they make all the difference.
--I start from here, then here,
But two shots, combined
That's power.
In other words, show it TWICE
and the audience's mind will make it
one hit that’s stronger.
By contrast, modern American editing
doesn't show the hit at all.
At the end of shot 1, the leg is here.
At the beginning of shot 2, it’s in
the same place, going backwards.
But because they cut at
the exact frame of the hit
it doesn’t feel like a hit.
A lot of people think this is
because of the PG-13 rating
but even R-rated films do this now
It looks like a bunch of
people flailing around
instead of a bunch of
people getting hurt.
Ouch.
Which brings us to number 8: pain.
Unlike a lot of action stars,
who try to look invincible
Jackie gets hurt.
A lot.
Half the fun of his work is that
not only are the stunts impressive
There’s always room for a joke.
Pain humanizes him. Because
no matter how skilled he is
He still gets smacked in the face.
In fact, Jackie’s face may
actually be his greatest asset
Many times the look he gives
is all it takes to sell a joke.
Like when he does an entire fight
holding a chicken.
Or dressed as Chun-li
And last, Jackie’s style always ends
with a real payoff for the audience.
By fighting his way from the bottom, he
earns the right to a spectacular finish.
He doesnt win cause hes a better fighter
He wins because he doesn’t give up
This relentlessness makes his finales
really impressive and really funny
And it’s in direct contrast to
a lot of his American work
where bad guys are defeated
because someone shoots them
COME ON.
But most of all, I think
Jackie’s style proves something:
action and comedy aren’t that different.
In both genres, we want
to see our best performers
And I think a lot of modern
action directors are failing completely.
These actors are skilled artists,
some of the best in the world.
Why are the directors so unskilled?
Why am I paying money
to NOT see the action?
--Whatever you do, do the best you can
because the film lives forever.
"No, because that day it was raining
and the actor don't have time."
I said, would you go to every theater
to tell the audience? No.
The audience sits in the theater:
good movie, bad movie that’s all
Exactly. This work will last.
And on that note,
I leave you with
the greatest death scene
in film history.